a vowel starts each syllable; 
a doubled vowel doesn't add an extra syllable; 
two or more different vowels together are a diphthong, 
	and probably don't start a new syllable but might; 
y is considered a vowel when it follows a consonant.





    The Written Method Rules

        Count the number of vowels (A, E, I, O, U) in the word.

            Add 1 every time the letter 'y' makes the sound of a vowel (A, E, I, O, U).

            Subtract 1 for each silent vowel (like the silent 'e' at the end of a word).

        Subtract 1 for each diphthong or triphthong in the word.

            Diphthong: when 2 vowels make only 1 sound (aw, oy, oo)

            Triphthong: when 3 vowels make only 1 sound (iou)

        Add 1 if the word ends with "le" or "les".

        The number you are left with is the number of syllables in your word.
        
        
        

    If number of letters <= 3 : return 1
    If doesn’t end with “ted” or “tes” or “ses” or “ied” or “ies”, discard “es” and “ed” at the end. If it has only 1 vowel or 1 set of consecutive vowels, discard. (like “speed”, “fled” etc.)
    Discard trailing “e”, except where ending is “le” and isn’t in the le_except array
    Check if consecutive vowels exists, triplets or pairs, count them as one.
    Count remaining vowels in the word.
    Add one if begins with “mc”
    Add one if ends with “y” but is not surrouned by vowel. (ex. “mickey”)
    Add one if “y” is surrounded by non-vowels and is not in the last word. (ex. “python”)
    If begins with “tri-” or “bi-” and is followed by a vowel, add one. (so that “ia” at “triangle” won’t be mistreated by step 4)
    If ends with “-ian”, should be counted as two syllables, except for “-tian” and “-cian”. (ex. “indian” and “politician” should be handled differently and shouldn’t be mistreated by step 4)
    If begins with “co-” and is followed by a vowel, check if it exists in the double syllable dictionary, if not, check if in single dictionary and act accordingly. (co_one and co_two dictionaries handle it. Ex. “coach” and “coapt” shouldn’t be treated equally by step 4)
    If starts with “pre-” and is followed by a vowel, check if exists in the double syllable dictionary, if not, check if in single dictionary and act accordingly. (similar to step 11, but very weak dictionary for the moment)
    Check for “-n’t” and cross match with dictionary to add syllable. (ex. “doesn’t”, “couldn’t”)
    Handling the exceptional words. (ex. “serious”, “fortunately”)


